.\" Manpage for aminoacids.
.\" Contact jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "2018" "1.0" "aminoacids man page" 
.SH NAME
aminoacids \- mine informations about residues
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBaminoacids\fR \fICIF\-FILE\fR ( \fB\-c\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR | \fB\-p\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR | [\fB\-a\fR]\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR )+

.B aminoacids -h
.SH DESCRIPTION
Extract informations about residues from IUPAC's components file.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fICIF\-FILE\fR
Path to the components file
.TP
.B -h
Show informations about the program
.SS
Extracted informations:
.TP
\fB\-c\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR
Extracts chemical composition for each residue (hydrogens, deuteriums and atoms with leaving flag are skipped).
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR is a directory or ends with a directory separator, 'composition.cit' is used as the file name;
if the path is not a directory but does not but not ends with '.cit', the extension is appended.
.TP
\fB\-p\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR
Extracts parent aminacid single-letter codes where available.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR is a directory or ends with a directory separator, 'aminoacid.moc' is used as the file name;
if the path is not a directory but does not but not ends with '.moc', the extension is appended.
.TP
[\fB\-a\fR]\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR
Shortcut for '\fB\-c\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR \fB\-p\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR'.
\fB\-a\fR is mandatory, if \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR starts with a hyphen\-minus sign.
.SH SEE ALSO
inspire(1), features(1), validate(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Jelínek (jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz)
                        