.\" Manpage for assign.
.\" Contact jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "2018" "1.0" "assign man page" 
.SH NAME
assign \- make a prediction human-readable
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR assign " (" \-\fBx\fR|\-\fBc\fR\fIDELIMITER\fR|\-\fBl\fR
\fIINDEX\-FILE\fR
\fIPREDICTION\-FILE\fR
\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR)+

.B assign \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
Parse prediction file, label them according to protein, model, chain and residue, and store them in a file.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fIPREDICTION\-FILE\fR
Path to a file with prediction that should be transformed to a human-readable format
.TP
\fIINDEX\-FILE\fR
Path to a index file with labels of residues
.TP
\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR
Where to store output file.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR is a directory or ends with a directory separator, \fIPREDICTION\-FILE\fR's basename is used as the file name;
if the path is not a directory but does not but not ends with an extension corresponding to a choosen file format, the extension is appended.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show informations about the program
.SS Output file format switchers:
.TP
.B -x
XML file format.
This file format has '.xml' as the extension.
.TP
.B -c\fR\fIDELIMITER\fR
Delimiter\-separated\-value file format with \fR\fIDELIMITER\fR as the delimiter.
This file format has '.csv' as the extension.
.TP
.B -l
Space efficient variation of tab\-separated\-value file, where repeated values are ommited.
This file format has '.pes' as the extension.
.SH SEE ALSO
inspire(1), prediction(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Jelínek (jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz)
