.\" Manpage for optimize.
.\" Contact jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "2018" "1.0" "optimize man page" 
.SH NAME
combine \- combine multiple optimization files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcombine\fR [\fB\-m\fR] [\fB\-o\fR] \fIOUTPUT\-FILE\fR \fB\-t\fR (\fIHEADER\fR \fIINPUT\-FILE\fR)+

\fBcombine\fR [\fB\-m\fR] [\fB\-o\fR] \fIOUTPUT\-FILE\fR [\fB\-p\fIPREFIX\fR] [\fB\-s\fISUFFIX\fR] [\fB\-i\fR] (\fIINPUT\-FILE\fR)+

.B optimize \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
Combine multiple optimization files with the same dimension and order of thresholds into one file.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fIINPUT\-FILE\fR
Input file that should be added to the output file. It must be preceded by \fB\-i\fR only if the first <INPUT-FILE> starts with minus sign '\-' and implicit headers of colomns are used.
Input file names are used as headers if explicit headers are not specified.
.TP
\fB\-p\fIPREFIX\fR
Remove \fIPREFIX\fR from implicit headers.
.TP
\fB\-s\fISUFFIX\fR
Remove \fISUFFIX\fR from implicit headers.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIOUTPUT\-FILE\fR
Output file where should be stored result of merging input files. It must be preceded by \fB\-o\fR only if the <OUTPUT-FILE> starts with minus sign '\-'.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR
Explicit headers will be specified. In that mode, each input file name must be preceded with its header.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR
Use median instead of mean value to combine values from input files.
.TP 
\fB-h\fR
Show informations about the program and its arguments.
.SH SEE ALSO
optimize(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Jelínek (jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz)
