.\" Manpage for features.
.\" Contact jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "2018" "1.0" "features man page" 
.SH NAME
features \- extracts features of residues
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B features
[\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-bc\fR|\fB\-w\fR]
\fIINDEX\-FILE\fR \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR [\fB\-\fR]
\fIFEATURE\fR+
(\fIPROTEINS\-PATH\fR)+

.B features \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
Extracts required features from proteins indexed in a given index file.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I INDEX\-FILE
Path to a index file
.TP
\fB\-\fR
Save each feature in a separate file (otherwise all features are stored together in one file)
.TP
\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR
Where to store output file.

If '\fB\-\fR' is typed, \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR must be a directory; and
each feature is stored in a separated file named according to the corresponding feature with '.tur' as an extension.

Otherwise (if '\fB\-\fR' is not typed), all features are stored in the same file.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR is a directory or ends with a directory separator, 'features.tur' is used as the file name.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR does not end with '.tur' extension, the extension is appended.
.TP
.I PROTEINS\-PATH
Path to a protein or a directory with proteins
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show informations about the program
.SS Iterators:
.TP
.B \-b
All biomolecules and models, but only the first crystallographic transformation are used
.TP
.B \-c
All crystallographic transformations, but only the first biomolecule and model are used
.TP
.B \-bc
All biomolecules, models and crystallographic transformations are used
.TP
.B \-w
Ignore both biomolecules and crystallographic transformation, use all chains as they are
.TP
If no iterator is specified, only the first biomolecule from the first model with the first crystallographic transformation is used
.SS Features:
\fIFEATURE\fR can be following
(lowercase switcher means the feature is loaded directly from proteins, 
while uppercase switcher means the feature transforms informations from other features/ files):
.TP
\fB-a\fR
Amino acid type three letter codes
.TP
\fB-c\fR
Coordinates of Carbon alpha of a residue separated by space
.TP
\fB-e\fR
Sorted atom names of all atoms in a residue except helium and deuterium separated by space
.TP
\fB\-i\fR\fIRADII\-FILE\fR[;\fIDISTANCE\fR]
Whether a residue is an interfacial residue with \fR\fIRADII\-FILE\fR defining radiuses of chemical elements and
\fIDISTANCE\fR sets the maximal allowed distance of two van der Waals radiuses (0.5A is a default value)
.TP
\fB\-s\fR\fIRADII\-FILE\fR;\fICOMPOSITION\-FILE\fR
Solvent accessible surface area with residues' composition defined in \fICOMPOSITION\-FILE\fR and 
atomic radiuses defined in \fIRADII\-FILE\fR.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
Protein's identifier (usefull e.g. to make temperature factor comparable between proteins)
.TP
\fB\-t\fR
Temperature factor of a residue
.TP
\fB\-B\fIBOUDARIES\-FILE\fR \fIFLOAT\-FEATURE\fR
Binned values of \fIFLOAT\-FEATURE\fR based on splitting points in \fIBOUDARIES\-FILE\fR.
I.e. in the case of sorted \fIBOUDARIES\-FILE\fR it returns \fIi\fR if the value is greater than \fIi\fRth splitting point but lower than or equal to (\fIi\fR+1)th splitting point.
(And \fB0\fR if it is lower than to equal to the first splitting point and \fB(count of splitting points)+1\fR if it is greater than the last splitting point.)
.TP
\fB\-F\fIFEATURE\-FILE\fR;\fIHEADER\fR
Load a float feature \fIHEADER\fR from a file \fIFEATURE\-FILE\fR
.TP
\fB\-L\fIFEATURE\-FILE\fR;\fIHEADER\fR
Load a string feature \fIHEADER\fR from a file \fIFEATURE\-FILE\fR
.TP
\fB\-N\fINEW\-TITLE\fR \fIFEATURE\fR
Change title of the inner feature (does not change values of the feature)
.TP
\fB\-P\fIPROJECTION\-FILE\fR \fIFEATURE\fR
Transforms feature \fIFEATURE\fR based on a dictionary defined in a \fIPROJECTION\-FILE\fR (missing keys are skipped).
E.g. to transform amino acids' three-letter codes to one\-letter codes.
Dictionary in the \fIPROJECTION\-FILE\fR should be in format 'key<TAB>value'
.TP
\fB\-R\fIREFERENCE\-VALUES\fR \fIFLOAT\-FEATURE\fR \fISTRING\-FEATURE\fR
For each residue relativizes a value of \fIFLOAT\-FEATURE\fR based on reference value in file \fIREFERENCE\-VALUES\fR for corresponding value of \fISTRING\-FEATURE\fR.
E.g. to transform solvent accessible surface area to relative solvent accessible surface area.
.TP
\fB\-X\fR(\fBf\fR|\fBs\fR)\fIFEATURE\-FILE\fR
Load an external feature from \fIFEATURE\-FILE\fR file in format \fIresidue_id\fB\t\fIvalue\fR.
The feature gets \fBxenofeature\fR as a title (it can be changed by \fB-N\fR feature).
\fBs\fR/ \fBf\fR defines a format of the \fIresidue_id\fR \- \fBs\fR means a simple format, while \fBf\fR means a full format.
The simple format has \fIresidue_id\fR in a form '\fIprotein_id\fB.\fIchain_id\fB.\fIresidue_number\fB\fIinsertion_code\fR' and
values will by copied to all models, biomolecules, chains transformed by biomolecule/ crystallographic transformations, etc.
The full format depends on the used iterator and its identifiers used in the index file:

\- for the default iterator:
.RS
.RS
\fIprotein_id\fB.\fIchain_id\fB+\fIassemblyTransformationID\fB.\fIresidue_number\fB\fIinsertion_code\fR
.RE

\- for the iterator \fB-w\fR:
.RS
\fIprotein_id\fB.\fIchain_id\fB.\fIresidue_number\fB\fIinsertion_code\fR
.RE

\- for the iterator \fB-b\fR:
.RS
\fIprotein_id\fB;\fIbiomoleculeID\fB,\fImodelID\fB.\fIchain_id\fB+\fIassemblyTransformationID\fB.\fIresidue_number\fB\fIinsertion_code\fR
.RE

\- for the iterator \fB-c\fR:
.RS
\fIprotein_id\fB.\fIchain_id\fB+\fIassemblyTransformationID\fB*\fIcrystallographicTransformationID\fB.\fIresidue_number\fB\fIinsertion_code\fR
.RE

\- for the iterator \fB-bc\fR:
.RS
\fIprotein_id\fB;\fIbiomoleculeID\fB,\fImodelID\fB.\fIchain_id\fB+\fIassemblyTransformationID\fB*\fIcrystallographicTransformationID\fB.\fIresidue_number\fB\fIinsertion_code\fR
.RE
.RE
.SH FORMAT OF FEATURE FILES
.SS Header line
The first line of each feature file;
names of columns (features) are separated by a tabulator.
.SS Data line
Each feature is separated by a tabulator, if it is not possible to extract an feature, the corresponding cell is empty.
Defaultly, index of each line is an index of the previous line plus one (the first line has index '1').
If a line has not consecutive index, the index is specified in an extra (last) column.
.SH NOTE
RASA feature may not be available if it is not specified during compilation as it requires an external library.
.SH TO DO
Actually, the specification of iterator is redundant and should be specified in the index file.
.SH SEE ALSO
inspire(1), index(1), aminoacids(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Jelínek (jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz)
