.\" Manpage for fingerprints.
.\" Contact jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "2018" "1.0" "fingerprints man page" 
.SH NAME
fingerprints \- construct fingerprints for specified residues
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR fingerprints " (" k | q ") "
.IR OUTPUT\-PATH " " SETTINGS\-FILE " " INDEX\-FILE " " NODES\-FILE " " EDGES\-FILE " (" FEATURES\-PATH ")*"

.B fingerprints \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
Constructs fingerprints defined in \fISETTINGS\-FILE\fR for subgraphs specified in '.sup' files with features of nodes defined in '.tur' files.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 4
.I INDEX\-FILE
Path to a index file
.TP
.I SETTINGS\-FILE
Path to a file defining how should be fingerprints constructed
.TP
.I FEATURES\-PATH
Features file or directory with features files required to construction of fingerprints or that could be used latter durring prediction
.TP
.I OUTPUT\-PATH
Where to store output file(s).

.RS 4
.TP
With \fBq\fR switcher:
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR is empty or ends with a directory separator, 'query.fit' is used as the file name.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR does not end with '.fit' extension, the extension is appended.
.RE

.RS 4
.TP
With \fBk\fR switcher:
\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR is interpreted as a directory and 
fingerprints are separated in directories and files named after features of central residues with '.fin' as a file extension.
Order of directories hieararchy is the same as the order of features in \fIFEATURES\-PATH\fRs.
.RE
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show informations about the program
.SS Subgraphs definition
.TP
.I NODES\-FILE
Defines for what subgraphs should be fingerprints constructed
.TP
.I EDGES\-FILE
Defines what nodes are connected by an edge
.SS File Formats:
.TP
.B k
Fingerprints are stored in binary files splitted in directories based on features of central residues
.TP
.B q
All fingerprints are stored in a single text file
.SH NOTE
.TP
Due to performancy reasons (saving RAM consumption), there are following expectations:
Records in \fIINDEX\-FILE\fR are grouped by protein_name, then by model_name and finally by chain_name columns;

Lines in \fINODES\-FILE\fR, \fIEDGES\-FILE\fR and files in \fIFEATURES\-PATH\fRs are sorted by index; and

All indices within a single row in both \fINODES\-FILE\fR and \fIEDGES\-FILE\fR are within the same model, i.e. you cannot combine two pdb files nor two different models.
.TP
\fINODES\-FILE\fR, \fIEDGES\-FILE\fR have the same file format, but their interpretation is different:
in the first case the whole row identify nodes in the graph with first node as a central residue;

in the second case the first node is connected with all other nodes by an edge.
.TP
Although \fIEDGES\-FILE\fR's file format allows interpretation as directed edges, they are used as undirected edges.
.SH SEE ALSO
inspire(1), index(1), features(1), subgraphs(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Jelínek (jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz)
