.\" Manpage for index.
.\" Contact jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "2018" "1.0" "index man page" 
.SH NAME
index \- create index of residues
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBindex\fR \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR [\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-bc\fR|\fB\-w\fR] (\fIPROTEINS\-PATH\fR)+

.B index \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
Create index of all residues in selected protein files.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I PROTEINS\-PATH
Path to a protein or a directory with proteins that should be indexed. Supported file formats are PDB ('*.pdb'), PDBx/mmCIF ('*.cif') and ('*.xml').
.TP
\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR [\fB\-s\fR]
Where to store output file.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR is empty or ends with a directory separator, 'residue.ind' is used as the file name.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR does not end with '.ind' extension, the extension is appended.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show informations about the program
.SS Iterators:
.TP
.B \-b
All biomolecules and models, but only the first crystallographic transformation are used
.TP
.B \-c
All crystallographic transformations, but only the first biomolecule and model are used
.TP
.B \-bc
All biomolecules, models and crystallographic transformations are used
.TP
.B \-w
Ignore both biomolecules and crystallographic transformation, use all chains as they are
.TP
If no iterator is specified, only the first biomolecule from the first model with the first crystallographic transformation is used
.SH INDEX FILE FORMAT
Each residue is on separate line and the number of the residue is the number of its line. The index of the first line is 1.
For each residue, index file contains residue identifier, chain identifier, model identifier and protein identifier in this order and separated by tab.
If any identifier except residue identifier is missing, it is the same as in the previous line and trailing tabs are trimmed.
.SH NOTE
Only the most probable alternative location is used for each atom.
(It can be changed in some future iterators.)
.SH TO DO
Crystallographic transformations are currently supported for PDB files only.

PDB bundles are not currently supported.
.SH SEE ALSO
inspire(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Jelínek (jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz)
