.\" Manpage for inspire.
.\" Contact jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "2018" "1.0" "inspire man page" 
.SH NAME
inspire \- protein\-protein INteraction Sites PREdictor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B inspire
[\fB\-s\fR \fIPROTEINS\-PATH\fR+] (\fB\-S\fR \fIPROTEIN\-FILE\fR)* [\fB\-x\fR\fITEMP\-DIR\fR] [\fB\-k\fR\fIKNOWLEDGE\-BASE\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR\fITHREADS\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR\fICOUNT\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR\fICENTRAL\-FEATURES\fR]
[\fB\-j\fR\fIEXCLUDE\-FILE\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR\fITHRESHOLDS\fR]
[\fB\-q\fR\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR] [\fB\-rx\fR|\fB\-rc\fIDELIMITER\fR|\fB\-rl\fR]

.B inspire
[\fB\-s\fR \fIPROTEINS\-PATH\fR+] (\fB\-S\fR \fIPROTEIN\-FILE\fR)* [\fB\-x\fR\fITEMP\-DIR\fR] [\fB\-k\fR\fIKNOWLEDGE\-BASE\fR] \fB\-m\fR
[\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-bc\fR|\fB\-w\fR]
[\fB\-i\fR\fIRADII\-FILE\fR[\fIDISTANCE\fR]
[\fB\-F\fR ( \fB\-a\fR\fITRANSFORMATION\-FILE\fR | \fB\-e\fR | \fB\-r\fR[[\fIRADII\-FILE\fR;[\fICOMPOSITION\-FILE\fR;]]\fIMAX\-SASA\-FILE\fR] | \fB\-t\fR )* \fB\-f\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR[\fBc\fR[\fILIMIT\fR]|\fBd\fR[\fIDISTANCE\fR]|\fBe\fR[\fIDISTANCE\fR[\fB\-\fR\fILIMIT\fR]]]]
[\fB\-e\fR[\fBc\fR[\fILIMIT\fR]|\fBd\fR[\fIDISTANCE\fR]|\fBe\fR[\fIDISTANCE\fR[\fB\-\fR\fILIMIT\fR]]]]
[\fB\-g\fR\fIFINGERPRINTS\-FORMAT\fR]

.B inspire -h
.SH DESCRIPTION
Make a prediction of protein-protein interaction sites using INSPiRE method, resp. construct a knowledge-base for that.
INSPiRE is a knowledge-based method that uses fingerprints to encode local structure of individual residues.
Details about the method can be found in doi:10.1186/s12859\-017\-1921\-4.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIPROTEINS\-PATH\fR
Path to a protein or a directory with proteins that should be used
(path cannot start with a hyphen\-minus sign \- in that case use \fB\-S\fR switchers that accepts a single path only).
Supported file formats are PDB ('*.pdb'), PDBx/mmCIF ('*.cif') and ('*.xml').
If none path is typed (using \fB\-s\fR or \fB\-S\fR switcher), the current directory ('.') is used).
.TP
\fB\-S\fR \fIPROTEIN\-FILE\fR
Path to a protein or a directory with proteins that should be used.
.TP
\fB\-x\fITEMP\-DIR\fR
Path to a directory, where to store temporary files.
If the path is specified, temporary files are not deleted (usefull for reusing of files, debugging etc.).
If the path is not specified, operating system's temporary directory is used and all temporary files are deleted on regular finish.
.TP
\fB\-k\fIKNOWLEDGE\-BASE\fR
Path to a directory, where is/ should be stored a knowledge\-base.
If the directory does not exist, it is created.
Without the switcher, the current directory ('.') is used defaultly.
.TP
\fB-p\fITHREADS\fR
Number of threads that should be used for data mining.
Default value is 1.
.TP
\fB-n\fICOUNT\fR
Number of the most similar elements that will be used for prediction.
If multiple fingerprints have the same similarity score, all fingerprints with the score equal to the score of the n\-th most similar element are used too.
Default value is 1.
.TP
\fB-o\fICENTRAL\-FEATURES\fR
What features of central residues will be used for prefiltering of knowledge-base.
Multiple features must be separated by a directory separator.
Default feature is amino acid type.
.TP
\fB-j\fISIBLINGS\-FILE\fR
Path to a file with defining, what knowledge-base's fingerprints should be skipped when searching for most similar fingerprints for individual query fingerprints.

This is usefull for benchmarking to exclude fingerprints from the same protein/ benchmark instead of construction of new knowledge-base for each benchmark.
.TP
\fB-l\fITHRESHOLDS\fR
Fractional binary classificator with the given threshold will be used for the prediction,
i.e. it is tested whether number of hits with label 'I' divided by a number of all hits is at least \fITHRESHOLDS\fR.
.TP
\fB-q\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR
Where to store output file.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR is empty or ends with a directory separator, 'prediction.pec' is used as a filename.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR does not end with '.pec' extension, the extension is appended.

Without the switcher, prediction is printed to standard output.
.TP
.B -m
Construction mode: knowledge\-base will be constructed instead of used for prediction.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR\fIRADII\-FILE\fR[\fIDISTANCE\fR]
Redefines radii of chemical elements using \fR\fIRADII\-FILE\fR and
optionally \fIDISTANCE\fR resets the maximal allowed distance of two radiuses (0.5 ? is a default value) to be classified as an interface.
\fIDISTANCE\fR must be separated by a space from \fIRADII\-FILE\fR.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR\fIFINGERPRINTS\-FORMAT\fR
Path to a file defining how should be fingerprints constructed
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show informations about the program
.SS Iterators
What residues will be used (if none of them is choosed, the first biomolecule with the first model and first crystallographic transformation is used):
.TP
.B \-b
All biomolecules and models, but only the first crystallographic transformation are used
.TP
.B \-c
All crystallographic transformations, but only the first biomolecule and model are used
.TP
.B \-bc
All biomolecules, models and crystallographic transformations are used
.TP
.B \-w
Ignore both biomolecules and crystallographic transformation, use all chains as they are
.SS Features
It is possible to redefine, what features of aminoacids (and how) will be computed:
.TP
.B \-F
Features section follows until \fB\-f\fR switcher.
.TP
.B \-f
Terminates features section.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR\fITRANSFORMATION\-FILE\fR
Aminoacid type three-letter code is transformed with transformation defined in \fITRANSFORMATION\-FILE\fR, that should be in format 'key<TAB>value'.
.TP
.B \-e
Atomic composition of a residue (helium and deuterium are skipped) will be extracted for each residue.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR\fIRADII\-FILE\fR;\fICOMPOSITION\-FILE\fR;\fIMAX\-SASA\-FILE
Relative solvent accessible surface area is calculated with residues' composition defined in \fICOMPOSITION\-FILE\fR, 
atomic radiuses defined in \fIRADII\-FILE\fR and reference solvent accessible surface areas defined in \fIMAX\-SASA\-FILE\fR.
.TP
.B \-t
Temperature factor will be extracted for each residue.
.SS Subgraphs
What component of graphs will be redefined:
.TP
.B \-v
Follows definition saying, what nodes belong to a particular neighbourhood
.TP
.B \-e
Follows definition saying, what pairs of nodes are connected by an edge
.TP
How it will be redefined:
.TP
\fBc\fILIMIT\fR
\fILIMIT\fR\-nearest neighbours (if several neighbours are within the same distance as the \fILIMIT\fRth-nearest neighbour, they all are taken).
.TP
\fBd\fIDISTANCE\fR
All residues that are at most \fIDISTANCE\fR ?ngströms away.
.TP
\fBe\fIDISTANCE\fR\-\fILIMIT\fR
All residues that are at most \fILIMIT\fR edges away, and
two residues are considered to be connected by an edge if they are at most \fIDISTANCE\fR ?ngströms distant.
.SS Output format
Specify a file format of results:
.TP
.B \-rx
Results will be in XML file format.
.TP
\fB\-rc\fIDELIMITER\fR
Results will be in delimiter\-separated values file format. This is the default option with TAB as the \fIDELIMITER\fR.
.TP
.B \-rl
Results will be stored in tab\-separated values file format with ommited repeated values. This is the most space\-efficient file format.
.SH TO DO
Does it make a sense to add interface feature in optional features too?

Repetition is useless for the target group?

Allow to predict just selected chains from a protein file?
.SH SEE ALSO
inspire(1), features(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Jelínek (jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz)
