.\" Manpage for mine.
.\" Contact jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "2018" "1.0" "mine man page" 
.SH NAME
mine \- find the most similar fingerprints
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmine\fR ([\fB-t\fR \fITHREADS\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fICOUNT\fR] [\fB-C\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fICENTRAL\-FEATURES\fR] \fB-k\fR \fIKNOWLEDGE\-BASE\fR
([\fB-S\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fISIBLINGS\-FILE\fR] [\fB-p\fR] \fIQUERY\-FILE\fR \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR)+)+

.B mine \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each query fingerprint finds indices of k\-most similar fingerprints with the same features of the central residue in the knowledge\-base.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fB-t\fR \fITHREADS\fR
Number of threads that should be used for data mining.
Default value is 1.
.TP
\fB-n\fR \fICOUNT\fR
Number of the most similar elements that will be returned.
If multiple fingerprints have the same similarity score, all fingerprints with the score equal to the score of the n\-th most similar element are returned too.
Default value is 1.
.TP
\fB-c\fR \fICENTRAL\-FEATURES\fR
What features of central residues will be used for prefiltering of knowledge-base.
Multiple features must be separated by a directory separator.
.TP
.B \-C
Clean filtering previously set with '\fB-c\fR' switch.
.TP
\fB-k\fR \fIKNOWLEDGE\-BASE\fR
Path to the root directory of a knowledge-base.
.TP
\fB-s\fR \fISIBLINGS\-FILE\fR
Path to a file with defining, what knowledge-base's fingerprints should be skipped when mining most similar fingerprints for individual query fingerprints.

This is usefull for benchmarking to exclude fingerprints from the same protein/ benchmark instead of construction of new knowledge-base for each benchmark.
.TP
.B \-S
Clean siblings previously set with '\fB-s\fR' switch.
.TP
.I QUERY\-FILE
A path to a file with query fingerprints for which the most similar elements should be find.
.TP
.B \-p
A switcher saying that the next one argument will be a \fIQUERY\-FILE\fR.
This switcher is mandatory if a \fIQUERY\-FILE\fR starts with a hyphen\-minus sign.
.TP
\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR
Where to store output file.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR is empty or ends with a directory separator, \fIQUERY\-FILE\fR's basename is used as the file name with '.med' as an extension.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR does not end with '.med' extension, the extension is appended.
.TP
.B -h
Show informations about the program
.SH TO DO
Besides k\-most similar elements (\fB\-n\fR switcher) allow also best*\fBCONST\fR and best+\fBCONST\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
inspire(1), features(1), fingerprints(1), exclude(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Jelínek (jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz)
