.\" Manpage for optimize.
.\" Contact jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "2018" "1.0" "optimize man page" 
.SH NAME
optimize \- optimize parameters of a classifier
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoptimize\fR (\fB-(f|w)\fIPRECISION\fR (\fB-l\fIFEATURES\-FILE\fR ([\fB-\fR] \fISTATISTICS\-FILE\fR \fB-o\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR)+)+)+

.B optimize \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
Optimize parameters of a classifier based on the selected feature and mined statistics.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fB-f\fIPRECISION\fR
Fractional binary classificator's threshold will be optimised with the given precission,
i.e. (\fIi\fR+0.5)/\fIPRECISION\fR for \fIi\fR from 0 to (\fIPRECISION\fR\-1) is tested as threshold for ratio of positive and negative cases.

Threshold is optimized using Matthews correlation coefficient as a prediction quality metric.
.TP
\fB-w\fIPRECISION\fR
Weighted classificator's weights will be optimised with the given precission,
i.e. all combination of weights from 1/\fIPRECISION\fR to 1 such that sum of weights is equal to 1 are tested.

Threshold is optimized using generalized Matthews correlation coefficient as a prediction quality metric.
.TP
\fB-l\fIFEATURES\-FILE\fR
Real labels of residues their classification is optimized.
.TP
\fISTATISTICS\-FILE\fR
Set of mined statistics used for optimization.
.TP
\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR
Where to store output file.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR is empty or ends with a directory separator, \fISTATISTICS\-FILE\fR's basename is used as the file name with '.sed' as an extension.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR does not end with '.sed' extension, the extension is appended.
.SH TO DO
Propose generalization of binary classifier to n\-ary data and more complex classifiers.

Allow to load labels from multiple files and use just selected labels from loaded files.

Consider to explicitly set all possible labels as some could not occurs in badly selected training set.
However it does not allow to optimize that parameter, so it is actually more complicated...
.SH SEE ALSO
inspire(1), classify(1), predict(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Jelínek (jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz)
