.\" Manpage for predict.
.\" Contact jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "2018" "1.0" "predict man page" 
.SH NAME
predict \- make prediction
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpredict\fR (\fB-f\fR\fITHRESHOLDS\fR ([\fB-\fR] \fISTATISTICS\-FILE\fR \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR)+)+

.B predict \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
Selects a winning label for each query residue according the given metric.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fB-f\fITHRESHOLDS\fR
Fractional binary tree classificator with the given thresholds will be used for the prediction,
i.e. it is tested whether number of hits with label \fB0\fR divided by a number of hits with labels \fB0\fR or \fB1\fR is at least \fIthreshold_0_1\fR and so on with the winning label and label \fB2\fR...

\fITHRESHOLDS\fR must contains number of 2\-combination of \fIx\fR space\-separated decimal numbers greater than or equal to 0 and less than or equal to 1,
where \fIx\fR is number of labels in \fISTATISTICS\-FILE\fR and order of labels in \fISTATISTICS\-FILE\fR's header must be preserved.
.TP
\fISTATISTICS\-FILE\fR
Set of mined statistics used for prediction.

Preceding \fB\-\fR is mandatory, if a \fISTATISTICS\-FILE\fR starts with a hyphen\-minus sign.
.TP
\fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR
Where to store output file.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR is empty or ends with a directory separator, \fISTATISTICS\-FILE\fR's basename is used as the file name with '.pec' as an extension.
If \fIOUTPUT\-PATH\fR does not end with '.pec' extension, the extension is appended.
.TP
.B -h
Show informations about the program
.SH TO DO
Propose better generalization of binary classifier to n\-ary data and more complex classifiers.
.SH SEE ALSO
inspire(1), classify(1), optimize(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Jelínek (jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz)
