.\" Manpage for random.
.\" Contact jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "2020" "1.0" "exclude man page" 
.SH NAME
random \- select random mutually dissimilar protein chains
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B random
\fIOUTPUT\-FILE\fR [\fB\-c\fICOUNT\fR] [\fB\-s\fISEED\fR] [\fB\-t\fITHRESHOLD\fR] [\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-bc\fR|\fB\-w\fR] \fIINDEX\-FILE\fR \fINEIGHBOURS\-FILE\fR \fISIMILARITY\-FILE\fR

.B random
\fIOUTPUT\-FILE\fR ([\fB\-c\fICOUNT\fR] [\fB\-s\fISEED\fR] [\fB\-t\fITHRESHOLD\fR] [\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-bc\fR|\fB\-w\fR] [\fB\-\fR] \fIHEADER\fR \fIINDEX\-FILE\fR \fINEIGHBOURS\-FILE\fR \fISIMILARITY\-FILE\fR)+

.B exclude \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
Randomly selects 100 protein chains (at most one chain from each protein) with mutual similarity less than a given threshold.

Selected chains will be printed in format \fIPROTEIN-ID\fB.\fICHAIN-ID\fR.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I OUTPUT\-FILE
Where to store identifiers of selected chains.
.TP
\fB\-c\fICOUNT
How many of dissimilar chains should be selected. The default count is 100.
.TP
\fB\-s\fISEED
Seed to initialize a random generator. The default seed is 1.
.TP
\fB\-t\fITHRESHOLD
Limit to consider chains as similar. The default threshold is 0.1.
.TP
\fB\-\fR \fIHEADER
Header to use in the output file for a following pair of input files.

The hyphen/minus sign is mandatory only if \fIHEADER\fR starts with a hyphen/minus sign.
.TP
.I INDEX\-FILE
Path to a index file containing chains that can be selected
.TP
.I SIMILARITY\-FILE
Path to a similarity file defining similarity of chains
.TP
.I NEIGHBOURS\-FILE
Path to a feature file defining neighbouring chains of residues
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show informations about the program
.SS Iterators:
What iterator was used to construction of the index file:
.TP
.B \-b
All biomolecules and models, but only the first crystallographic transformation were used;
.TP
.B \-c
All crystallographic transformations, but only the first biomolecule and model were used;
.TP
.B \-bc
All biomolecules, models and crystallographic transformations were used;
.TP
.B \-f
Only the first biomolecule from the first model with the first crystallographic transformation were used (this is the default option);
.TP
.B \-w
Both biomolecules and crystallographic transformation were ignored, all chains were used as they were;
.SH SEE ALSO
inspire(1), index(1), similarity(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Jelínek (jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz)
