.\" Manpage for fingerprints.
.\" Contact jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "2018" "1.0" "subgraphs man page" 
.SH NAME
subgraphs \- extracts subgraphs for each residue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B subgraphs
.IR INDEX\-FILE " " POSITIONS\-PATH " " OUTPUT\-PATH
( \fB\-c\fR \fILIMIT\fR+ | \fB\-d\fR \fIDISTANCE\fR+ | \fB\-e\fR \fIDISTANCE\fR \fILIMIT\fR+ )+

.B subgraphs \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
Extract subgraphs for each indexed residue (called as central residue) with defined position.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I INDEX\-FILE
Path to a index file
.TP
.I POSITIONS\-PATH
Features file with coordinates of residues
.TP
.I OUTPUT\-PATH
Where to store output file(s).
To the OUTPUT\-PATH is appended code of the used subgraph type (see that section) and '.sup' extension.
.TP
.B -h
Show informations about the program
.SS Subgraphs
In each subgraph is a central residue and:
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fILIMIT\fR
\fILIMIT\fR\-nearest neighbours (if several neighbours are within the same distance as the \fILIMIT\fRth-nearest neighbour, they all are taken).

Filename suffix is '\fBc\fR\fILIMIT\fR\fB\.sup\fR'.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fIDISTANCE\fR
All residues that are at most \fIDISTANCE\fR Angstroems away.

Filename suffix is '\fBd\fR\fIDISTANCE\fR\fB\.sup\fR'.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fIDISTANCE\fR \fILIMIT\fR
All residues that are at most \fILIMIT\fR edges away, and
two residues are considered to be connected by an edge if they are at most \fIDISTANCE\fR Angstroems distant.

Filename suffix is '\fBe\fR\fIDISTANCE\fR\fB\_\fR\fILIMIT\fR\fB\.sup\fR' (\fR\fIDISTANCE\fR and \fILIMIT\fR are separated by underscore).
.SH NOTE
Currently, \fIDISTANCE\fR is parsed and then converted back to string to create filenames, so formatting is not preserved.
.SH SEE ALSO
inspire(1), index(1), features(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Jelínek (jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz)
