.\" Manpage for fingerprints.
.\" Contact jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "2018" "1.0" "subgraphs man page" 
.SH NAME
validate \- identify valid proteins
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B validate
[\fB\-a\fR[\fIINCOMPLETE\-ABS\fR]] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-c\fR[\fIMIN\-CHAINS\fR]] [\fB\-d\fR] [\fB\-l\fR[\fIMIN\-LENGTH\fR]] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-r\fR[\fIINCOMPLETE\-REL\fR]] [\fB\-u\fR] ([\fB\-x\fR] | [\fB\-xi\fIMIN\-COUNT\fR] [\fB\-xn\fIMIN\-COUNT\fR])
\fIINDEX\-FILE\fR \fIINDEX\-LOG\fR
\fIRESIDUES\-FEATURE\fR \fIRESIDUES\-VALID\fR
\fICOMPOSITIONS\-FEATURE\fR \fICOMPOSITIONS\-VALID\fR
\fIINTERFACES\-FEATURE\fR
[\fB\-ib\fR|\fB\-ic\fR|\fB\-ibc\fR|\fB\-iw\fR] (\fIPROTEINS\-PATH\fR)+

.B exclude \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
Check what complexes are valid to be in a knowledge-base.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I INDEX\-FILE
Path to a index file;
.TP
.I INDEX\-LOG
Path to a log file created during \fIINDEX\-FILE\fR construction;
.TP
.I RESIDUES\-FEATURE
Path to a feature file with residue type three-letters codes;
.TP
.I RESIDUES\-VALID
Path to a file with transformation \- it is used to define valid residue codes;
.TP
.I COMPOSITIONS\-FEATURE
Path to a feature file with measured composition of residues;
.TP
.I COMPOSITIONS\-VALID
Path to a file saying what are valid compositions of residue types;
.TP
.I PROTEINS\-PATH
Path to a protein or a directory with proteins that should be validated;
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show informations about the program.
.SS Validators:
What should be checked and what thresholds should be used.
Not all of the previously mentioned files are mandatory for all validations, if a file is not used in any test,
a dummy value can be used for the corresponding argument (but the argument cannot be leaved out to have input less prone to errors).
.TP
.BI \-a INCOMPLETE\-ABS
There can be at most \fIINCOMPLETE\-ABS\fR incomplete (or missing) residues within the whole protein.
The default value of \fIINCOMPLETE\-ABS\fR (if missing or empty) is 50.
Mandatory are \fIINDEX\-FILE\fR, \fIINDEX\-LOG\fR, \fIRESIDUES\-FEATURE\fR, \fICOMPOSITIONS\-FEATURE\fR, \fICOMPOSITIONS\-VALID\fR and an used iterator.
.TP
.B \-b
Filter out proteins without Remark 350 in PDB file (or equivalent in PDBML/PDBc file).
Mandatory is \fIINDEX\-LOG\fR.
.TP
.BI \-c MIN\-CHAINS
There must be at least \fIMIN\-CHAINS\fR chains within all biomolecules.
The default value of \fIMIN\-CHAINS\fR (if missing or empty) is 2.
Mandatory is \fIINDEX\-FILE\fR.
.TP
.B \-d
All biomolecules must have the same number of chains.
Mandatory is \fIINDEX\-FILE\fR.
.TP
.BI \-l MIN\-LENGTH
Each chain must have at least \fIMIN\-LENGTH\fR residues.
The default value of \fIMIN\-LENGTH\fR(if missing or empty) is 20.
Mandatory are \fIINDEX\-FILE\fR, \fIINDEX\-LOG\fR and an used iterator.
.TP
.B \-n
There cannot be any HETATM record.
Mandatory are \fIPROTEINS\-PATH\fRs.
.TP
.BI \-r INCOMPLETE\-REL
There can be at most 100*\fIINCOMPLETE\-REL\fR % of residues incomplete (or missing) within each chain.
The default value of \fIINCOMPLETE\-REL\fR (if missing or empty) is 0.05.
Mandatory are \fIINDEX\-FILE\fR, \fIINDEX\-LOG\fR, \fIRESIDUES\-FEATURE\fR, \fICOMPOSITIONS\-FEATURE\fR, \fICOMPOSITIONS\-VALID\fR and an used iterator.
.TP
.B \-u
There cannot be any unknown residue.
Mandatory are \fIINDEX\-FILE\fR, \fIRESIDUES\-FEATURE\fR and \fIRESIDUES\-VALID\fR.
.TP
.B \-x
Shortcut for \fB-ii1 -in1\fR.
.TP
.BI \-xi MIN\-COUNT
Each chain must contain at least \fIMIN\-COUNT\fR interacting residue.
The default value of \fIMIN\-COUNT\fR(if missing or empty) is 1.
Mandatory are \fIINDEX\-FILE\fR and \fIINTERFACES\-FEATURE\fR.
.TP
.BI \-xn MIN\-COUNT
Each chain must contain at least \fIMIN\-COUNT\fR non-interacting residue.
The default value of \fIMIN\-COUNT\fR(if missing or empty) is 1.
Mandatory are \fIINDEX\-FILE\fR and \fIINTERFACES\-FEATURE\fR.
.SS Iterators:
What iterator was used to construction of the index file (if no iterator is specified, only the first biomolecule from the first model with the first crystallographic transformation were used):
.TP
.B \-ib
All biomolecules and models, but only the first crystallographic transformation were used;
.TP
.B \-ic
All crystallographic transformations, but only the first biomolecule and model were used;
.TP
.B \-ibc
All biomolecules, models and crystallographic transformations were used;
.TP
.B \-iw
Both biomolecules and crystallographic transformation were ignored, all chains were used as they were;
.SH SEE ALSO
inspire(1), index(1), feature(1), aminoacid(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jan Jelínek (jelinek@ksi.mff.cuni.cz)
